README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a title="FPGA Tomu (Fomu) Workshop" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img width="600px" src="docs/_static/logo.png"/></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a title="Nightly build" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/website.svg?label=workshop.fomu.im&longCache=true&style=flat-square&url=http%3A%2F%2Fworkshop.fomu.im%2Findex.html&logo=Read%20the%20Docs&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
  <a title="Nightly build" href="https://im-tomu.github.io/fomu-workshop"><img src="https://img.shields.io/website.svg?label=im-tomu.github.io%2Ffomu-workshop&longCache=true&style=flat-square&url=http%3A%2F%2Fim-tomu.github.io%2Ffomu-workshop%2Findex.html&logo=GitHub&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
  <a title="'test' workflow status" href="https://github.com/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/actions?query=workflow%3Atest"><img alt="'test' workflow status" src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/test?longCache=true&style=flat-square&label=test&logo=Github%20Actions&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
  <a title="'doc' workflow status" href="https://github.com/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/actions?query=workflow%3Adoc"><img alt="'doc' workflow status" src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/doc?longCache=true&style=flat-square&label=doc&logo=Github%20Actions&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
</p>

Hi, I'm Fomu!  [This workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/) covers the basics of
Fomu in a top-down approach.  We'll start out by learning **what** Fomu is, **how to
load software** into Fomu, **how to write software** for Fomu and finally **how to
write hardware** for Fomu.

<p align="center">
  <a title="FPGA Tomu (Fomu) Workshop" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img src="docs/_static/hw-pvt-back-bare-small.jpg"/></a>
  <a title="FPGA Tomu (Fomu) Workshop" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img src="docs/_static/hw-pvt-front-bare-small.jpg"/></a>
</p>

FPGAs are complex, weird things, so we'll take a gentle approach and start out
by treating it like a Python interpreter first, and gradually peel away layers
until we're writing our own hardware registers.  You can take a break at any
time and explore!  Stop when you feel the concepts are too unfamiliar, or
plough on and dig deep into the world of hardware.

The contents of this workshop is published at [workshop.fomu.im](https://workshop.fomu.im).

## Repository Contents

- [docs](./docs) - The actual workshop directions and content.
- [litex](./litex) - The files required for [the Migen / LiteX section of the
  workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/migen.html).
- [reference](./reference) - Extra reference documentation such as schematics
  and part datasheets.
- [riscv-blink](./riscv-blink) - The files required for the [Fomu as a RISC-V
  CPU section of the workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/riscv.html).
- [verilog](./verilog) - The files required for the [Verilog on Fomu section
  of the workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/verilog.html).
- [vhdl](./vhdl) - The files required for the [VHDL on Fomu section
  of the workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/vhdl.html).
- [mixed-hdl](./mixed-hdl) - The files required for the [Mixed HDL on Fomu section
  of the workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/mixedhdl.html).

# Development

For guidelines about how to develop the workshop or how to build the workshop
locally, see [DEVELOPMENT](DEVELOPMENT.md).

Commit message:

readme: fix hdl links,  list subdirs icestudio, migen and risc-rust-blink

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a title="FPGA Tomu (Fomu) Workshop" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img width="600px" src="docs/_static/logo.png"/></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a title="Nightly build" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/website.svg?label=workshop.fomu.im&longCache=true&style=flat-square&url=http%3A%2F%2Fworkshop.fomu.im%2Findex.html&logo=Read%20the%20Docs&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
  <a title="Nightly build" href="https://im-tomu.github.io/fomu-workshop"><img src="https://img.shields.io/website.svg?label=im-tomu.github.io%2Ffomu-workshop&longCache=true&style=flat-square&url=http%3A%2F%2Fim-tomu.github.io%2Ffomu-workshop%2Findex.html&logo=GitHub&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
  <a title="'test' workflow status" href="https://github.com/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/actions?query=workflow%3Atest"><img alt="'test' workflow status" src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/test?longCache=true&style=flat-square&label=test&logo=Github%20Actions&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
  <a title="'doc' workflow status" href="https://github.com/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/actions?query=workflow%3Adoc"><img alt="'doc' workflow status" src="https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/im-tomu/fomu-workshop/doc?longCache=true&style=flat-square&label=doc&logo=Github%20Actions&logoColor=fff"></a><!--
  -->
</p>

Hi, I'm Fomu!  [This workshop](https://workshop.fomu.im/) covers the basics of Fomu in a top-down approach.
We'll start out by learning **what** Fomu is, **how to load software** into Fomu, **how to write software** for Fomu and
finally **how to write hardware** for Fomu.

<p align="center">
  <a title="FPGA Tomu (Fomu) Workshop" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img src="docs/_static/hw-pvt-back-bare-small.jpg"/></a>
  <a title="FPGA Tomu (Fomu) Workshop" href="https://workshop.fomu.im/"><img src="docs/_static/hw-pvt-front-bare-small.jpg"/></a>
</p>

FPGAs are complex, weird things, so we'll take a gentle approach and start out by treating it like a Python interpreter
first, and gradually peel away layers until we're writing our own hardware registers.
You can take a break at any time and explore!
Stop when you feel the concepts are too unfamiliar, or plough on and dig deep into the world of hardware.

The contents of this workshop is published at [workshop.fomu.im](https://workshop.fomu.im).

## Repository Contents

- [docs](./docs) - The actual workshop directions and content.
- [hdl](./hdl)
  - [verilog](./hdl/verilog) - The files required for the [Verilog on Fomu](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/verilog.html)
    section of the workshop.
  - [vhdl](./hdl/vhdl) - The files required for the [VHDL on Fomu](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/vhdl.html) section
    of the workshop.
  - [mixed](./hdl/mixed) - The files required for the [Mixed HDL on Fomu](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/mixedhdl.html)
    section of the workshop.
- [icestudio](./icestudio) - The files required for the [Fomu on IceStudio *Nightly*](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/icestudio.html)
    section of the workshop.
- [litex](./litex), [migen](./migen) - The files required for the [Migen and LiteX](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/migen.html)
  section of the workshop.
- [reference](./reference) - Extra reference documentation such as schematics and part datasheets.
- riscv
  - [riscv-blink](./riscv-blink) - The files required for the [Fomu as a CPU](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/riscv.html)
    section of the workshop.
  - [riscv-rust-blink](./riscv-rust-blink) - The files required for the [Fomu as a CPU, Using Rust](https://workshop.fomu.im/en/latest/riscv.html#using-rust)
    section of the workshop.

# Development

For guidelines about how to develop the workshop or how to build the workshop
locally, see [DEVELOPMENT](DEVELOPMENT.md).
