docs/icestudio.rst, before:

Fomu on IceStudio *Nightly*
---------------------------

.. IMPORTANT:: Fomu is currently not supported in the stable releases
  of IceStudio. Development or `nightly <https://github.com/juanmard/icestudio/releases/tag/nightly>`_
  releases need to be used.

“Hello world!” - Blink a LED
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The canonical “Hello, world!” of hardware is to blink a LED. The
directory ``icestudio`` contains a Blinky example in ICE format.
Moreover, ``Blinky_BoardTop.ice`` wraps Blinky, showcasing how
to use the Design Under Test (DUT) as a black box.

Open ``Blinky_BoardTop.ice`` from `Icestudio <https://juanmard.github.io/icestudio/>`_
and use the buttons at the botton:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_steps.png
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center
   :target: https://github.com/juanmard/icestudio

0. Check that the **selected board** is the Fomu.

   - Click on the button with a 'microchip' icon, and a modal window will open.
   - There, select the device (UP5K) in the first dropdown list and the board (Fomu)
     in the second list.

1. Click on the **Verify** button for checking the design.
2. Click on the **Build** button for having the design exported to Verilog, synthesised,
   placed, routed and, finally, the bitstream generated.
3. Click on the **Upload** for sending the bitstream to the board.
4. After each of the steps is executed, the corresponding log can be shown through button
   **View command output**.

You should see the rainbow pattern in the Fomu as soon as the *Upload*
step is finished:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_video.gif
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center
   :target: https://github.com/juanmard/icestudio

However, that's just the beginning of the trip...

Navigation
==========

You can navigate the hierarchy of the design by double-clicking on the main
block. Go as deep as you want, until you find raw Verilog code. As you
can observe, ICE modules are fancy wrappers around the Verilog code from
``verilog/blink``.

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky.gif
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center

Editing submodules is blocked by default, but you can unlock the feature
with the red button at the botton left. Do the modifications you wish,
then save the changes and go back to the top. There is a 'Home' button
at the bottom left for jumping to the root of the design straightaway.
From the top, you can verify, build and upload the design again.

You can also open or save each of the blocks as an independent project.
For instance, open ``Blinky.ice``, instead of ``Blinky_BoardTop.ice``:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_diagram.png
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center

Modules are browsable, as shown in the screencast above:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/clk_buffering.png
   :width: 33%
.. image:: _static/icestudio/pwm_generator.png
   :width: 33%
.. image:: _static/icestudio/sb_rgba_drv.png
   :width: 33%

.. HINT:: Find more info about features of IceStudio (such as collections or
  plugins) in the `documentation <https://juanmard.github.io/icestudio/index.html>`_.

Commit message:

icestudio: add Blinky variant with 'Board rules'

docs/icestudio.rst, after:

Fomu on IceStudio *Nightly*
---------------------------

.. IMPORTANT:: Fomu is currently not supported in the stable releases
  of IceStudio. Development or `nightly <https://github.com/juanmard/icestudio/releases/tag/nightly>`_
  releases need to be used.

“Hello world!” - Blink a LED
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The canonical “Hello, world!” of hardware is to blink a LED. The
directory ``icestudio`` contains a Blinky example in ICE format.
Moreover, ``Blinky_BoardTop.ice`` wraps Blinky, showcasing how
to use the Design Under Test (DUT) as a black box.

Open ``Blinky_BoardTop.ice`` from `Icestudio <https://juanmard.github.io/icestudio/>`_
and use the buttons at the botton:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_steps.png
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center
   :target: https://github.com/juanmard/icestudio

0. Check that the **selected board** is the Fomu.

   - Click on the button with a 'microchip' icon, and a modal window will open.
   - There, select the device (UP5K) in the first dropdown list and the board (Fomu)
     in the second list.

1. Click on the **Verify** button for checking the design.
2. Click on the **Build** button for having the design exported to Verilog, synthesised,
   placed, routed and, finally, the bitstream generated.
3. Click on the **Upload** for sending the bitstream to the board.
4. After each of the steps is executed, the corresponding log can be shown through button
   **View command output**.

You should see the rainbow pattern in the Fomu as soon as the *Upload*
step is finished:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_video.gif
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center
   :target: https://github.com/juanmard/icestudio

However, that's just the beginning of the trip...

Navigation
==========

You can navigate the hierarchy of the design by double-clicking on the main
block. Go as deep as you want, until you find raw Verilog code. As you
can observe, ICE modules are fancy wrappers around the Verilog code from
``verilog/blink``.

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky.gif
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center

Editing submodules is blocked by default, but you can unlock the feature
with the red button at the botton left. Do the modifications you wish,
then save the changes and go back to the top. There is a 'Home' button
at the bottom left for jumping to the root of the design straightaway.
From the top, you can verify, build and upload the design again.

You can also open or save each of the blocks as an independent project.
For instance, open ``Blinky.ice``, instead of ``Blinky_BoardTop.ice``:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_diagram.png
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center

Modules are browsable, as shown in the screencast above:

.. image:: _static/icestudio/clk_buffering.png
   :width: 33%
.. image:: _static/icestudio/pwm_generator.png
   :width: 33%
.. image:: _static/icestudio/sb_rgba_drv.png
   :width: 33%

Board rules
===========

You can use a feature in *icestudio Nightly*.
Fomu needs to disconnect its USB communication stack,
so it is always necessary to set pins *usb_dn*, *usb_dp* and *usb_dp_pu*,
so that it can use the option *"board rules"* for a cleaner desing.
As an example see the result of applying this feature in the previous example.

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_board_rules.png
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center

To use this feature, activate the option in the card properties.
You can see the rules applied to each pin by using the appropriate option.

.. image:: _static/icestudio/blinky_board_options.gif
   :width: 600 px
   :align: center

You can use the file ``Blinky_BoardTop_rules.ice`` as an example.

.. HINT:: Find more info about features of IceStudio (such as collections or
  plugins) in the `documentation <https://juanmard.github.io/icestudio/index.html>`_.
