docs/migen.rst, before:

Migen and LiteX
---------------

.. _hello-world---blink-an-led-1:

“Hello world!” - Blink a LED
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

FIXME: Add the Migen and LiteX equivalent for the Verilog above.

Wishbone Bus
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Migen is an HDL embedded in Python, and LiteX provides us with a
Wishbone abstraction layer. There really is no reason we need to include
a CPU with our design, but we can still reuse the USB Wishbone bridge in
order to write HDL code.

We can use ``DummyUsb`` to respond to USB requests and bridge USB to
Wishbone, and rely on LiteX to generate registers and wire them to
hardware signals. We can still use ``wishbone-tool`` to read and write
memory, and with a wishbone bridge we can actually have code running on
our local system that can read and write memory on Fomu.

Go to the ``litex`` directory and build the design;

.. session:: shell-session

   $ python3 workshop.py --board $FOMU_REV
   lxbuildenv: v2019.8.19.1 (run .\workshop.py --lx-help for help)
   lxbuildenv: Skipping git configuration because "skip-git" was found in LX_CONFIGURATION
   lxbuildenv: To fetch from git, run .\workshop.py --placer heap --lx-check-git
   Warning: Wire top.basesoc_adr has an unprocessed 'init' attribute.
   Warning: Wire top.basesoc_bus_wishbone_ack has an unprocessed 'init' attribute.
   Warning: Wire top.basesoc_bus_wishbone_dat_r has an unprocessed 'init' attribute.
   ...
   Info: Device utilisation:
   Info:            ICESTORM_LC:  1483/ 5280    28%
   Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:     1/   30     3%
   Info:                  SB_IO:     4/   96     4%
   Info:                  SB_GB:     8/    8   100%
   Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:     1/    1   100%
   Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:     0/    1     0%
   Info:           ICESTORM_DSP:     0/    8     0%
   Info:         ICESTORM_HFOSC:     0/    1     0%
   Info:         ICESTORM_LFOSC:     0/    1     0%
   Info:                 SB_I2C:     0/    2     0%
   Info:                 SB_SPI:     0/    2     0%
   Info:                 IO_I3C:     0/    2     0%
   Info:            SB_LEDDA_IP:     0/    1     0%
   Info:            SB_RGBA_DRV:     0/    1     0%
   Info:         ICESTORM_SPRAM:     4/    4   100%
   ...
   Info: [ 55530,  59533) |********+
   Info: [ 59533,  63536) |************************************************+
   Info: [ 63536,  67539) |******************************+
   Info: [ 67539,  71542) |*************+
   Info: [ 71542,  75545) |********************+
   Info: [ 75545,  79548) |************************************************************
   5 warnings, 0 errors
   $

Load it onto Fomu:

.. session:: shell-session

   $ dfu-util -D build/gateware/top.dfu
   dfu-util 0.8
   Copyright 2005-2009 Weston Schmidt, Harald Welte and OpenMoko Inc.
   Copyright 2010-2014 Tormod Volden and Stefan Schmidt
   This program is Free Software and has ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
   Please report bugs to dfu-util@lists.gnumonks.org

   Opening DFU capable USB device...
   ID 1209:5bf0
   Run-time device DFU version 0101
   Claiming USB DFU Interface...
   Setting Alternate Setting #0 ...
   Determining device status: state = dfuIDLE, status = 0
   dfuIDLE, continuing
   DFU mode device DFU version 0101
   Device returned transfer size 1024
   Copying data from PC to DFU device
   Download        [=========================] 100%       104090 bytes
   Download done.
   state(7) = dfuMANIFEST, status(0) = No error condition is present
   state(8) = dfuMANIFEST-WAIT-RESET, status(0) = No error condition is present
   Done!
   $

If you get an error message about missing modules, check you have all
submodules cloned and setup with;

.. session:: shell-session

   $ git submodule update --recursive --init
   $

Take a look at ``build/csr.csv``. This describes the various regions
present in our design. You can see
``memory_region,sram,0x10000000,131072``, which indicates the RAM is 128
kilobytes long and is located at ``0x10000000``, just as when we had a
CPU. You can also see the timer, which is a feature that comes as part
of LiteX. Let’s try reading and writing RAM:

.. session:: shell-session

   $ wishbone-tool 0x10000000
   Value at 10000000: 0baf801e
   $ wishbone-tool 0x10000000 0x98765432
   $ wishbone-tool 0x10000000
   Value at 10000000: 98765432
   $

Aside from that, there’s not much we can *do* with this design. But
there’s a lot of infrastructure there. So let’s add something (see
``workshop_rgb.py`` for full example).

.. image:: _static/ice40-rgb.jpg
   :width: 100%
   :alt: RGB block

This is the RGB block from the datasheet. It has five inputs:
``CURREN``, ``RGBLEDEN``, ``RGB0PWM``, ``RGB1PWM``, and ``RGB2PWM``. It
has three outputs: ``RGB0``, ``RGB1``, and ``RGB2``. It also has four
parameters: ``CURRENT_MODE``, ``RGB0_CURRENT``, ``RGB1_CURRENT``, and
``RGB2_CURRENT``.

This block is defined in Verilog, but we can very easily import it as a
Module into Migen:

.. code:: python

   class FomuRGB(Module, AutoCSR):
       def __init__(self, pads):
           self.output = CSRStorage(3)
           self.specials += Instance("SB_RGBA_DRV",
               i_CURREN = 0b1,
               i_RGBLEDEN = 0b1,
               i_RGB0PWM = self.output.storage[0],
               i_RGB1PWM = self.output.storage[1],
               i_RGB2PWM = self.output.storage[2],
               o_RGB0 = pads.r,
               o_RGB1 = pads.g,
               o_RGB2 = pads.b,
               p_CURRENT_MODE = "0b1",
               p_RGB0_CURRENT = "0b000011",
               p_RGB1_CURRENT = "0b000011",
               p_RGB2_CURRENT = "0b000011",
           )

This will instantiate this Verilog block and connect it up. It also
creates a ``CSRStorage`` object that is three bits wide, and assigns it
to ``output``. By having this derive from ``AutoCSR``, the CSRStorage
will have CSR bus accessor methods added to it automatically. Finally,
it wires the pads up to the outputs of the block.

We can instantiate this block by simply creating a new object and adding
it to ``self.specials`` in our design:

.. code:: python

   ...
       # Add the LED driver block
       led_pads = soc.platform.request("rgb_led")
       soc.submodules.fomu_rgb = FomuRGB(led_pads)

Finally, we need to add it to the ``csr_map``:

.. code:: python

   ...
       soc.add_csr("fomu_rgb")

Now, when we rebuild this design and check ``build/csr.csv`` we can see
our new register:

.. code:: csv

   csr_register,rgb_output,0xe0006800,1,rw

We can use ``wishbone-tool`` to write values to ``0xe0006800`` and see
them take effect immediately.

You can see that it takes very little code to take a Signal from HDL and
expose it on the Wishbone bus.

Commit message:

add documentation for migen examples

docs/migen.rst, after:

Migen and LiteX
---------------

.. _hello-world---blink-an-led-1:

“Hello world!” - Blink a LED
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Migen is an HDL embedded in Python. The verilog examples (in directory
``verilog``) can also be written using Migen; an implementation is provided
in directory ``migen``.

To try them out, go to the ``migen`` directory and execute ``blink.py`` or
``blink-expanded.py`` respectively (before, ensure that you have set
the ``FOMU_REV`` environment variable correctly). This will create a
``build`` directory with a ``top.bin`` file.

Using ``dfu-util -D build/top.bin``, it can be loaded onto the Fomu and should
work identically as the corresponding verilog example.

Wishbone Bus
^^^^^^^^^^^^

LiteX provides us with a Wishbone abstraction layer. There really is no
reason we need to include a CPU with our design, but we can still reuse
the USB Wishbone bridge in order to write HDL code.

We can use ``DummyUsb`` to respond to USB requests and bridge USB to
Wishbone, and rely on LiteX to generate registers and wire them to
hardware signals. We can still use ``wishbone-tool`` to read and write
memory, and with a wishbone bridge we can actually have code running on
our local system that can read and write memory on Fomu.

Go to the ``litex`` directory and build the design;

.. session:: shell-session

   $ python3 workshop.py --board $FOMU_REV
   lxbuildenv: v2019.8.19.1 (run .\workshop.py --lx-help for help)
   lxbuildenv: Skipping git configuration because "skip-git" was found in LX_CONFIGURATION
   lxbuildenv: To fetch from git, run .\workshop.py --placer heap --lx-check-git
   Warning: Wire top.basesoc_adr has an unprocessed 'init' attribute.
   Warning: Wire top.basesoc_bus_wishbone_ack has an unprocessed 'init' attribute.
   Warning: Wire top.basesoc_bus_wishbone_dat_r has an unprocessed 'init' attribute.
   ...
   Info: Device utilisation:
   Info:            ICESTORM_LC:  1483/ 5280    28%
   Info:           ICESTORM_RAM:     1/   30     3%
   Info:                  SB_IO:     4/   96     4%
   Info:                  SB_GB:     8/    8   100%
   Info:           ICESTORM_PLL:     1/    1   100%
   Info:            SB_WARMBOOT:     0/    1     0%
   Info:           ICESTORM_DSP:     0/    8     0%
   Info:         ICESTORM_HFOSC:     0/    1     0%
   Info:         ICESTORM_LFOSC:     0/    1     0%
   Info:                 SB_I2C:     0/    2     0%
   Info:                 SB_SPI:     0/    2     0%
   Info:                 IO_I3C:     0/    2     0%
   Info:            SB_LEDDA_IP:     0/    1     0%
   Info:            SB_RGBA_DRV:     0/    1     0%
   Info:         ICESTORM_SPRAM:     4/    4   100%
   ...
   Info: [ 55530,  59533) |********+
   Info: [ 59533,  63536) |************************************************+
   Info: [ 63536,  67539) |******************************+
   Info: [ 67539,  71542) |*************+
   Info: [ 71542,  75545) |********************+
   Info: [ 75545,  79548) |************************************************************
   5 warnings, 0 errors
   $

Load it onto Fomu:

.. session:: shell-session

   $ dfu-util -D build/gateware/top.dfu
   dfu-util 0.8
   Copyright 2005-2009 Weston Schmidt, Harald Welte and OpenMoko Inc.
   Copyright 2010-2014 Tormod Volden and Stefan Schmidt
   This program is Free Software and has ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
   Please report bugs to dfu-util@lists.gnumonks.org

   Opening DFU capable USB device...
   ID 1209:5bf0
   Run-time device DFU version 0101
   Claiming USB DFU Interface...
   Setting Alternate Setting #0 ...
   Determining device status: state = dfuIDLE, status = 0
   dfuIDLE, continuing
   DFU mode device DFU version 0101
   Device returned transfer size 1024
   Copying data from PC to DFU device
   Download        [=========================] 100%       104090 bytes
   Download done.
   state(7) = dfuMANIFEST, status(0) = No error condition is present
   state(8) = dfuMANIFEST-WAIT-RESET, status(0) = No error condition is present
   Done!
   $

If you get an error message about missing modules, check you have all
submodules cloned and setup with;

.. session:: shell-session

   $ git submodule update --recursive --init
   $

Take a look at ``build/csr.csv``. This describes the various regions
present in our design. You can see
``memory_region,sram,0x10000000,131072``, which indicates the RAM is 128
kilobytes long and is located at ``0x10000000``, just as when we had a
CPU. You can also see the timer, which is a feature that comes as part
of LiteX. Let’s try reading and writing RAM:

.. session:: shell-session

   $ wishbone-tool 0x10000000
   Value at 10000000: 0baf801e
   $ wishbone-tool 0x10000000 0x98765432
   $ wishbone-tool 0x10000000
   Value at 10000000: 98765432
   $

Aside from that, there’s not much we can *do* with this design. But
there’s a lot of infrastructure there. So let’s add something (see
``workshop_rgb.py`` for full example).

.. image:: _static/ice40-rgb.jpg
   :width: 100%
   :alt: RGB block

This is the RGB block from the datasheet. It has five inputs:
``CURREN``, ``RGBLEDEN``, ``RGB0PWM``, ``RGB1PWM``, and ``RGB2PWM``. It
has three outputs: ``RGB0``, ``RGB1``, and ``RGB2``. It also has four
parameters: ``CURRENT_MODE``, ``RGB0_CURRENT``, ``RGB1_CURRENT``, and
``RGB2_CURRENT``.

This block is defined in Verilog, but we can very easily import it as a
Module into Migen:

.. code:: python

   class FomuRGB(Module, AutoCSR):
       def __init__(self, pads):
           self.output = CSRStorage(3)
           self.specials += Instance("SB_RGBA_DRV",
               i_CURREN = 0b1,
               i_RGBLEDEN = 0b1,
               i_RGB0PWM = self.output.storage[0],
               i_RGB1PWM = self.output.storage[1],
               i_RGB2PWM = self.output.storage[2],
               o_RGB0 = pads.r,
               o_RGB1 = pads.g,
               o_RGB2 = pads.b,
               p_CURRENT_MODE = "0b1",
               p_RGB0_CURRENT = "0b000011",
               p_RGB1_CURRENT = "0b000011",
               p_RGB2_CURRENT = "0b000011",
           )

This will instantiate this Verilog block and connect it up. It also
creates a ``CSRStorage`` object that is three bits wide, and assigns it
to ``output``. By having this derive from ``AutoCSR``, the CSRStorage
will have CSR bus accessor methods added to it automatically. Finally,
it wires the pads up to the outputs of the block.

We can instantiate this block by simply creating a new object and adding
it to ``self.specials`` in our design:

.. code:: python

   ...
       # Add the LED driver block
       led_pads = soc.platform.request("rgb_led")
       soc.submodules.fomu_rgb = FomuRGB(led_pads)

Finally, we need to add it to the ``csr_map``:

.. code:: python

   ...
       soc.add_csr("fomu_rgb")

Now, when we rebuild this design and check ``build/csr.csv`` we can see
our new register:

.. code:: csv

   csr_register,rgb_output,0xe0006800,1,rw

We can use ``wishbone-tool`` to write values to ``0xe0006800`` and see
them take effect immediately.

You can see that it takes very little code to take a Signal from HDL and
expose it on the Wishbone bus.
