docs/renode-zephyr.rst, before:

Running your own Zephyr binary on LiteX/VexRiscv in Renode
==========================================================

Zephyr is a very capable RTOS governed by a Linux Foundation subproject.
It is very well supported on the RISC-V architecture, as well as in
LiteX.

Building a Zephyr application
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install all the dependencies and prepare the environment for building
the Zephyr application follow the official `Zephyr Getting Started
Guide <https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/getting_started/index.html>`__
up to point 4. On Linux you can follow the instructions from the point 5
on installing the Software Development Toolchain. For other operating
systems, if you followed the instructions from the ``Required Software``
section of this tutorial, you should have a toolchain in ``PATH``.

On macOS and Windows you also need to set some additional variables.

For macOS:

.. code:: bash

   export ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT=cross-compile
   export CROSS_COMPILE=riscv64-unknown-elf-

For Windows:

::

   set ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT=cross-compile
   set CROSS_COMPILE=riscv64-unknown-elf-

To build the ``shell`` demo application for the LiteX/VexRiscv board run
the following commands on Linux and macOS:

.. code:: bash

   cd ~/zephyrproject/zephyr
   source zephyr-env.sh
   west build -p auto -b litex_vexriscv samples/subsys/shell/shell_module/

And on Windows:

::

   cd %HOMEPATH%\zephyrproject\zephyr
   zephyr-env.cmd
   west build -p auto -b litex_vexriscv samples\subsys\shell\shell_module\

The resulting ELF file will be in ``build/zephyr/zephyr.elf``.

Run the app in Renode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run the app you just compiled, you basically need to replace the
precomipled demo binary with the one you want, by setting the ``zephyr``
variable - see below.

Just like before, start Renode using the ``renode`` command (or
``./renode`` if you built from sources).

You will see the Monitor, where you should type:

::

   (monitor) $zephyr=@~/zephyrproject/zephyr/build/zephyr/zephyr.elf
   (monitor) start @scripts/single-node/litex_vexriscv_zephyr.resc

You should see a new window pop up for the serial port. In it, you
should see the Zephyr interactive shell.

Debugging the app in Renode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general, debugging in Renode is done with GDB just like with a
physical board - you connect to a debug port and execute GDB commands as
usual. For details, see the `Renode debugging
documentation <https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/debugging/gdb.html>`__.

Commit message:

Note which python version to use building zephyr
Following all the instructions in order leaves you with python3.6 from
the TOMU toolchain first in your PATH, which doesn't work for building
zephyr.

Add a note to remove it from your PATH.

docs/renode-zephyr.rst, after:

Running your own Zephyr binary on LiteX/VexRiscv in Renode
==========================================================

Zephyr is a very capable RTOS governed by a Linux Foundation subproject.
It is very well supported on the RISC-V architecture, as well as in
LiteX.

Building a Zephyr application
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install all the dependencies and prepare the environment for building
the Zephyr application follow the official `Zephyr Getting Started
Guide <https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/getting_started/index.html>`__
up to point 4. On Linux you can follow the instructions from the point 5
on installing the Software Development Toolchain. The python version
in the FOMU toolchain may not work; remove it from your PATH before
attempting to build zephyr.
For other operating
systems, if you followed the instructions from the ``Required Software``
section of this tutorial, you should have a toolchain in ``PATH``.

On macOS and Windows you also need to set some additional variables.

For macOS:

.. code:: bash

   export ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT=cross-compile
   export CROSS_COMPILE=riscv64-unknown-elf-

For Windows:

::

   set ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT=cross-compile
   set CROSS_COMPILE=riscv64-unknown-elf-

To build the ``shell`` demo application for the LiteX/VexRiscv board run
the following commands on Linux and macOS:

.. code:: bash

   cd ~/zephyrproject/zephyr
   source zephyr-env.sh
   west build -p auto -b litex_vexriscv samples/subsys/shell/shell_module/

And on Windows:

::

   cd %HOMEPATH%\zephyrproject\zephyr
   zephyr-env.cmd
   west build -p auto -b litex_vexriscv samples\subsys\shell\shell_module\

The resulting ELF file will be in ``build/zephyr/zephyr.elf``.

Run the app in Renode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run the app you just compiled, you basically need to replace the
precomipled demo binary with the one you want, by setting the ``zephyr``
variable - see below.

Just like before, start Renode using the ``renode`` command (or
``./renode`` if you built from sources).

You will see the Monitor, where you should type:

::

   (monitor) $zephyr=@~/zephyrproject/zephyr/build/zephyr/zephyr.elf
   (monitor) start @scripts/single-node/litex_vexriscv_zephyr.resc

You should see a new window pop up for the serial port. In it, you
should see the Zephyr interactive shell.

Debugging the app in Renode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In general, debugging in Renode is done with GDB just like with a
physical board - you connect to a debug port and execute GDB commands as
usual. For details, see the `Renode debugging
documentation <https://renode.readthedocs.io/en/latest/debugging/gdb.html>`__.
